Related Posts: Fix context for use with blocks (#30682)
Automattic/jetpack: projects/plugins/jetpack/modules/related-posts/readme.md

# Related Posts

The basic code flow for Related Posts (legacy version) is:

1. Generate an empty DIV to be added to the page.
2. Make an API call to get the working post IDs.
3. Call `get_related_post_data_for_post()` for each ID.
4. Use generated data to update the DIV once page load is complete.

For the block-based version:

1. Make an API call to get the working post IDs.
2. Call `get_related_post_data_for_post()` for each ID.
3. Use generated data to render the block when called.

## Prerequisites

> If using a FSE-enabled theme, the site-wide Related Posts setting will be ignored. For other themes, the site-wide setting is honoured as long as a Related Posts block or shortcode is not found on the page. The Related Posts code paths will only output once per page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using a block theme, the site-wide Related Posts setting will be ignored. For other themes, the site-wide setting is honored as long as a Related Posts block or shortcode is not found on the page. The Related Posts code paths will only output once per page.
```

In both cases, the feature needs to be turned on in the Jetpack settings. This makes sense for the legacy widget but can be a bit confusing for the block. It will not be visible in the block "picker" until enabled.

## API Usage

The block depends on wpcom for the working post IDs. See `get_related_post_ids()` for details. The returned data should look like this:

```
[{"id":919},{"id":9},{"id":903}]
```

Note the data used in rendering is all generated locally once the post IDs have been provided.

## Block Source

> The source for the Gutenburg block lives separately at:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The source for the Gutenberg block lives separately at:
```
